right now
hello everyone and welcome to another
Stellar open protocol discussion as
per usual in these meetings we discuss
potential changes to the Stellar
protocol that take the form of core
advancement proposals or caps
these are technical specs they suggest
changes to the Stellar protocol that
allow the Stellar protocol to add new
features and evolve to meet the needs of
the ecosystem
we're live streaming them so that anyone
who's out there can follow along but
again i do want to point out it's
again I do want to point out it's
technical so if you are watching this
you should probably look at cap 21 in
order to understand what we're talking
about that is what we're going to be
talking about today cap21
and you should also join the Stellar dev
mailing list where offline discussions
about these changes take place
also there it we do keep an eye on the
discussion box so if you put comments or
questions in there they do help inform
our decisions going forward we may
not actually address them in this
meeting although if they're super
germaine i may bring them up
germaine I may bring them up
today we are focusing specifically as i
said on cap 21.
cap 21 basically is a cap
that
lays the groundwork for building payment
channels on Stellar so what we're
talking about today sounds a little
obscure keep that in mind payment
channels are things that allow multiple
parties to securely transact off chain
and periodically settle on chain and
among other things that make it easier
to build high volume use cases on
Stellar so changes to cap 21 are
proposed by cat 21 they allow for
payment channels
last time we also discussed cap 40 and
basically got it to a point where it was
near ready to be accepted but cat 40 is
contingent on cap 21 and so here's where
we are with cat 21 there are a few
outstanding issues and questions that
we're going to try to walk through today
i think that we are actually quite
I think that we are actually quite
close to getting this accepted although
we'll see what the outcome of today's
conversation is so with that in mind
let's just kick it off
cap 21
is what we were talking about today and
i believe that
I believe that
you know the question is
i i think that there are a couple of
I I think that there are a couple of
questions that came up on the mailing
list and there was a question about
transactions failing during execution
that came up during the last meeting but
to start with i think we should sort of
to start with I think we should sort of
try to deal with the outstanding
questions that are on the mailing list
and nico if you can just share the first
of those questions with us so that we
can start to discuss it
niko
i was looking yeah i didn't have
I was looking yeah I didn't have
those questions open hold on sorry
so yeah so
yeah i guess like the first question was
yeah I guess like the first question was
more of a
of a minor
minor thing that i that i
minor thing that I that i
didn't we didn't discuss but that maybe
is something we should be
at least putting as like a potential
thing that is
should that behavior that we have
for tracking the modified time
basically for the sequence number this
be an opt-in
right now it's kind of
making this blanket change right like
as soon as protocol whatever as soon
as cap basically becomes active
we are going to
kind of yeah make
like track this new less modified
basically in each account i mean it
basically in each account I mean it
seems like
from an implementation i mean the reason
from an implementation I mean the reason
i mentioned that as a flag right instead
I mentioned that as a flag right instead
instead of being a
a
like a
protocol base right like in terms of the
code it's actually the same thing like
you have to in the code to deal with
all protocol version new protocol
version so instead of checking against
protocol version we could check against
the flag
the difference is that
it would make it that
the tests for sure are going to be
much simpler because now we can actually
just test that part like in a solution
fairly easily whereas i know that lee
fairly easily whereas I know that lee
in the past raised the issue and i think
in the past raised the issue and I think
that's true that we would have to rework
a bunch of tests
given the the way they are written today
in core at least i don't know in outside
in core at least I don't know in outside
i mean it seems like a pretty big foot
I mean it seems like a pretty big foot
gun to have this flag
right because now this is something
something that's going to like
catastrophically break all kinds of you
know smart contracts and stuff if like
this flag ever gets cleared or if like
people don't realize that it's not set
so
it would be there would have to be like
a huge huge advantage
to having these like two kinds of
accounts one that just blanket failed
preconditions and
ones that that actually
implement the preconditions no it would
not so the preconditions would not fail
it's the
the last modified
yeah would
not be enabled
yeah so i don't know if it's yeah
yeah so I don't know if it's yeah
like preconditions i think that the cap
like preconditions I think that the cap
says that
if the
you know if you take it
there it's treated as zero
yeah it's exactly it would be zero
so i don't know
so I don't know
i think if you added the flag we could
I think if you added the flag we could
we could actually we don't need to have
a default at all
we just say that a transaction is
invalid if it tries to use that
feature and the account doesn't have it
enabled
and for any account to enable the
feature the new stack
that's a
right now you have to like constantly
check that
that when you're engaging in a
protocol that looks like it's okay that
that account actually has this flag set
so I'm
really i don't understand what benefit
really I don't understand what benefit
could possibly outweigh like i was
could possibly outweigh like I was
saying it's a faster implementation so
you know if we if if you know if
no i just wanted to mention because i
no I just wanted to mention because i
know that was raised before and and and
by looking at the first kind of round of
questions on that lee had on that
prototype
i mean it looks like it's a legitimate
I mean it looks like it's a legitimate
concern
i mean so maybe can you explain a
I mean so maybe can you explain a
little bit
better like what what the complication
is of having it
it's around the setup i think of test
it's around the setup I think of test
code like a lot of times we're
creating accounts we're doing all those
things and i think
things and I think
those accounts are created
without accounting
entry extensions well with the yeah
with the default change like that they
would be created
with the this extension
and and then when we do the so
basically we create like a snapshot of
the ledger right
and then we run a bunch of tests for
different protocol versions
and here the protocol version is
obviously in like for older protocol
versions this would be invalid an
invalid ledger state
so i think there's a bunch of
so I think there's a bunch of
refactoring that needs to be done i mean
refactoring that needs to be done I mean
they've been involved ledger state
well an account with such an extension
is not valid as of today right
so i mean what what happened when you
so I mean what what happened when you
upgraded to account entry extension v2
why is this any different from the v2 v1
to v2
beyond v2 was an opt-in right like it
was only when you were
using i mean from everyone to each
using I mean from everyone to each
other liabilities right so that's what
one
number sponsored and number sponsoring
like sponsors yeah
otherwise we didn't change it
we would not
and touch it
clarify something here is the
the way that the proposal is currently
written i i think what I'm understanding
written I think what I'm understanding
is that
when an account is created it'll
automatically have an accounting entry
extension v3 at that point there's no
way otherwise right
and yeah so basically like the reason
that this will be confusing david is
that like
there's like
old historical tests which is a lot of
the tests like many thousands possibly
tens of thousands of tests
were written such a way that like the
setup was done in the current protocol
version and then you like time travel
backwards in time and do the tests in
the appropriate protocol version
so we'd have to go and fix that
yeah
so you're saying that right now if i
create a new
you're saying that right now if i create
you're saying that right now if I create
a new account i don't get an account
a new account I don't get an account
entry extension v2 correct you you just
have null extension
now maybe there's an argument that we
should go and fix our tests anyway
yeah i mean that's why i was saying like
yeah I mean that's why I was saying like
it's a it's a trade-off right like can i
write you can i write you like an xdr
write you can I write you like an xdr
converter that will automatically i mean
converter that will automatically I mean
it seems like we could
i mean do the tests have like specific
I mean do the tests have like specific
like shot 256 hash values of ledger
state is that the problem
well they can't though because there's
other there's other values like like the
ledger number and stuff that aren't
there so what so what specifically is it
that fails in the test
like maybe there's just like an xdr
there's like some
template magic invalid xdr at as of
currently
so if i just
so if I just
so if you just write a an unmarching
function that will unmarshal
a new
account entry to to an old one by
stripping off the entry extensions v2
and three then we're good right all we
need is that one function
no not really
like i mean yes yes you could in
like I mean yes yes you could in
principle do that
but like in practice what's happening is
like we have these like invariants
that are written right like they check
that like nothing is broken things
that things only exist if they should
exist in effect like no negative
balances blah blah
and in practice like you could imagine
the sequence of operations is like
you're in protocol version 19 let's say
or 20 or whatever whenever we get this
done
you create an account it has account
entry extension v3 you travel back in
time
you go and do some other operation
you know you're not doing like raw xdr
operations it's like literally a seller
operation so let's call it like a
payment it goes and does this payment
it goes it loads up this thing
it loads it happily because it knows how
to load it it's valid xdr in the terms
of like what the xtr is sorry but it is
marshalled or it's unmarshalled you're
loading up the bytes so you're loading
you're just have a simple structure
floating around you're loading up the
literal bytes but like this is
happening like deep deep deep inside of
cell record like not not in the test
it's like you know in the actual
production code
then you like load this thing up it's
happy because it's good you go through
you do the operation everything is fine
and then you hit the invariant and the
invariant's like oh no you're dead
because you have this thing that
shouldn't have been there
the right solution is just to fix the
test so that they do the setup in the
right version do you realize you guys
are like massively making the case that
i was making several weeks ago that like
I was making several weeks ago that like
we shouldn't be doing our extensions
this way right because like if there's
any benefit to doing this horrible
cascading nested thing that's wasteful
of bites wasteful of like program or
keystrokes and wasteful of your
right-hand margin it should be that like
this backwards compatibility stuff isn't
an issue but like no but david this is
not
this doesn't matter like this is invalid
this is an invalid byte configuration in
existing critical version
that's what john just said it's a we
have invariants that check that you
don't have garbage in the ledger
right
that's garbage like from today's point
of view it's garbage right it's not bad
but I'm saying the extension it has
nothing to do with how extensions are
set up right but which should i mean
set up right but which should I mean
shouldn't that be one of the benefits of
doing these cascaded xdrs is this
backwards compatibility with sources not
by quad compatible that's the point like
it this is garbage from today's protocol
I'm just saying like
this is
we have to rewrite the test for this but
we would also have had to rewrite the
tests if we'd done it the original way
that i did the extension so i don't i
that I did the extension so I don't i
don't see what we've won by this latest
change that i've made because a lot of
things have been written wrong in the
first place but the production code
doesn't have to change at all the
production code all just works exactly
the same
that's the thing let's see well
whatever okay so
do we have to write about yourself the
issue here is just tests right like the
in the production code the way that it
works as proposed is good it prevents
there from being like a foot gun
but it requires us to
to rewrite a bunch of tests is that
correct
yeah i mean like the so the reason going
yeah I mean like the so the reason going
back to the question i was asking right
back to the question I was asking right
the reason i was asking the question
the reason I was asking the question
was to see
how bad would it be if we were making
this a flag right that's that's the
question
yeah and david it seems like it's it's
about yeah it would be really bad so
that means we need to go fix the test i
mean that's kind of what you know okay
cool fixing test is easy it just takes
time like we just need exactly it's it's
going to be a bit of a time sync but
that's that's okay i mean if we're
that's that's okay I mean if we're
saying it's basically a non-starter to
have a flag it takes either it takes
time or it takes xdr trickery right so
it may be like oh no no no no no the xdr
trickery is going to be like it's going
to be validation protocol that's why we
can't do that
so let's but let's yeah that's fine
let's take it offline
regardless it's test test hackery right
yeah so yeah i wanna i wanna just
yeah so yeah I wanna I wanna just
exactly one thing about like if we do if
we were to introduce a flag i think it
we were to introduce a flag I think it
would have
an impact on the usability
of this stuff as well because like
you're saying like we would never be
able to just create a transaction for an
existing account that hadn't enabled the
flag which means that if you have an
account that's just sitting there on the
network and you want to interact
with it in this way and with some new
contract
that maybe doesn't require
interactive setup initially you can't
just go and use these features of the
network which is sort of inconvenient
like so that doesn't won't affect the
payment channel protocol that we're
hoping to use this for right now but it
might affect some other future thing
yeah and it's worse than that because we
don't have spv
so like there's no concise proof that an
account actually has this flag so it
means that the receiver side would like
synchronously need to like query some
trusted horizon instance in order to
like participate in what should be an
offline protocol so
okay so flags fix the tests
yeah it's bummer for the test but
okay what was the second question
time point
this one should be a lot easier
yeah the unsigned thing so my question
was like i don't remember what
was like I don't remember what
happened there but like
making that change
is there is actually not a lot of like
the mention in the backwards compat
section
is actually a bit misleading it says
that you know nobody cares
I'm actually not true I'm
not so sure i I'm pretty sure we do
not so sure I I'm pretty sure we do
have in historical data transactions
with
large max time
and
and the other thing too is that to this
code regardless you know core horizon
sdks they have to handle those large
numbers so in a way like making that
change just makes everything more
complicated
so I'm not sure it's actually delighted
to leave it unsigned i originally had it
to leave it unsigned I originally had it
unsigned and then i feel like
unsigned and then I feel like
people objected to that i mean all i
people objected to that I mean all i
want is like i think all our time points
want is like I think all our time points
should be like a type def right so it's
like
the only thing worse i mean i think
the only thing worse I mean I think
either signed or unsigned is fine it's
just it's bad to have like a mix of the
two right like we should just be
consistent about sign and unsign because
when you start comparing signed and
unsigned numbers as we all know like you
know bad things start happening so
we already have
now we already have a mix
claymore balances you signed
time down to use unsigned
i mean we're there so
I mean we're there so
oh yeah okay
so i guess
so I guess
out of luck on this one
so i mean i i so i i really don't care i
so I mean I so I really don't care i
just want to be the same as other things
so i guess i'll keep it unsigned and you
so I guess i'll keep it unsigned and you
know
we we can add we can regular
transactions that's kind of the the
concern i have here is that it changes
concern I have here is that it changes
regular transactions
so
i'll make it unsigned again what make
time point unsigned and we'll deprecate
signed time points in future
operations
another another option would be to make
the time point inside the new
precondition precondition version 2
signed
since that's a new
that's a new field nobody's going to be
using that yet
we keep the old time point as
unselling for backwards compatibility
i know it seems
I know it seems
not worth it to me but yeah
let's keep it unsigned
okay
sounds good
all right so time points remain unsigned
where we got next
next one is around
the
section on how transactions get
forwarded
so
basically says that they are like those
two criterias a and b
that
allows a node to decide if it's going to
accumulate basically this transaction in
its in its queues
and
yeah
so like the first question is that
so yeah so i think that the
so yeah so I think that the
the criteria b
talks about
lower signals it's actually not
clear it's it seems to imply that you
are actually allowing
transactions to be accumulated if we
receive them out of order and i think
receive them out of order and I think
this is probably not the intent
that's the first question
oh so in other words i say don't forward
oh so in other words I say don't forward
it but you should it should be stronger
than that it should be just like throw
it away
like should yeah like it should not be
better
that's a good point right e is actually
it should be it shouldn't have this
lower sequence number i think on the
does that make sense wait what do you
mean there shouldn't be no you
like right now you're saying it's
invalid
if either
you know the condition is not met so
this is those are easy right the the the
b is what I'm interested in like right
now it says
it's invalid if there is already a
transaction with a lower signal
sorry it's invalid no it is valid that's
what your text says
is the polarity a transaction with a
non-zero min ck german sequential
atmosphere is invalid enough forwarded
if either a the appropriate condition
doesn't hold
or b there are pending valid
transactions with lower sequence numbers
on the same source account okay so wait
so what's and you're saying b i should
so what's and you're saying b I should
say and in case b should also throw it
away instead of storing it in memory
well it's in valid right so we are
throwing it away my the question it's
not no no it's not invalid it's not
invalid
in a it's in validity it's valid but
they're things with a lower sequence
number so let me give you an example
just to make sure we're we're on the
same page right so you have a
transaction with sequence number two
but
but that could execute immediately
because it has a because it has
like
a min seek noun
that's less than the default
and you have a transaction with
sequence number one
right so you could just execute two in
isolation
or you could execute
one but you can't execute them both in
the same ledger
no that understands yes like
but here
so if you receive
so in your example i have two right
so in your example I have two right
and i have two and that and then i
and I have two and that and then i
receive one what happens
then then one takes priority like you
okay so this then it makes so then
this is kind of broken right it's
actually under specified first of all
it's
why is it underspecified
well you're actually not saying that
you're talking about
i guess it
so yeah you're saying you're kicking out
highest
transactions with higher signal
that's right like you'll still vote for
a block you know you'll still nominate a
block that has it but is that a good
property i mean it sounds kind of weird
property I mean it sounds kind of weird
we already have this it's exactly we
already have this exact situation no we
don't kick out transactions like this
okay let me let me tell you a situation
i believe is exactly analogous which is
I believe is exactly analogous which is
that you receive
a transaction
with
you know a fee of 100
and then you receive another transaction
the same sequence number that has like a
fee of 200 right and so now if you've
already of course forwarded the 100 well
you forwarded it fine but now you'll
forward the 200 and if you see both
you'll only forward the one with the
higher fee
and so that's the same that's the same
way we're basically like among multiple
mutually exclusive but valid
transactions you need a way to
prioritize them and I'm saying here
you prioritize the one with the lower
sequence number
now why do you need this question
oh because because the second one might
could later be valid right you're not
yeah unlike the case of the sequence
numbers you're not you're not
necessarily completely invalidating the
second transaction you're just it will
have to execute like a you know an hour
later or whatever the you know whatever
the min seek age is
so or men whatever the
yeah yeah
so
so so you know you might as well like
keep them the most number of
transactions valid i mean if you're if
transactions valid I mean if you're if
you
are strongly opposed to this we could i
i i guess doesn't really matter we could
I I guess doesn't really matter we could
we could favor the other one but i don't
we could favor the other one but I don't
i don't see i mean i like it sounds like
I don't see I mean I like it sounds like
kind of arbitrary so that's why I'm I'm
asking like why the first one shouldn't
win in this case
in some ways it might be more useful if
the second one is yeah because we often
say that we often say that sequence
numbers is how you invalidate prior
transactions
so
it sounds like if we say that the
first one wins then you could never use
a higher sequence number transaction
with a min sequence number it was lower
to invalidate a prior transaction
but someone could always well they might
not be able to submit it because they
might they might not it might have a a
timeout it might have a a min
I'm in time right which is generally how
this works so
so like you know the reason i did this
so like you know the reason I did this
is because
like
you know it seems more useful to have
like two if you have two transactions
then they can both execute it seems
helpful to have it be such that both can
execute and you know if you accidentally
release if you accidentally send out the
second transaction too soon like
you know
i don't strongly care if you want it the
I don't strongly care if you want it the
other way around i can do it around it
other way around I can do it around it
has some implication right from a dos
money because you can basically like
if you have this rule right well you
don't say first win first one wins
you basically can
so with the example this will collect
more fees right the the
current draft will collect fees on both
transactions no you're dropping transfer
you know let me finish so with the
the example you give you said it's the
same thing when the fee with the fee you
have to actually outbid right so
you have to constantly like if you want
to
cancel a pending transaction you have
to update it
right
with this one you don't have to update
it it it can be the same fee
no you are you you said the
the that transaction that was in the
transaction queue gets discarded
because i have a lower sequencing number
because I have a lower sequencing number
I'm not currently discarding it i
thought that's what you were suggesting
currently you're just not forwarding it
so just to be clear david what you're
suggesting is like imagine that i have
suggesting is like imagine that I have
seen like currency numbers 10 i submit a
seen like currency numbers 10 I submit a
transaction with minstic 10 actual seek
and then i later receive
and then I later receive
seek 11.
europe your approach that what you what
we think is in the cap and i've been
rereading it like five times here while
everybody's been talking to make sure i
think that's what actually it says is
that you would actually keep both in
that
case because yes because you don't know
like you could see a block that has
either one it's the same way like if you
see
i mean i really i think it's very
I mean I really I think it's very
similar to the to the to the multiple
prices to the multiple
fees right whereas like you know you see
you saw the fee of 100 then you see this
fee of 200 so you forward that as well
and you know you still need to kind of
keep the fee of 100 around because it
could be that the block that gets
nominated has that so you don't want to
like if you see a hash of that
transaction you still will need to like
you know get the pre-image of it right
we actually don't have that transaction
so you might actually have to then go
fetch it from another Stellar core
potentially but the other thing we
can do
the other thing though is that with
the fees the fees back off exponentially
that's a big difference against this and
i think that's what nico was saying
I think that's what nico was saying
like i think i forget what multiplier we
like I think I forget what multiplier we
use i forgot if we ended up using two or
use I forgot if we ended up using two or
ten we debated about it for a long time
but either way it's like you can only do
this 64 times
with fees or maybe it's 10 times or 20
times with the
like the scenario that i've been trying
to think about while i was rereading
to think about while I was rereading
your thing repeatedly is like
what if i have two transactions
what if I have two transactions
and they can't both execute because of
fees i don't have enough balance to pay
fees I don't have enough balance to pay
both fees
but so like going back to my scenario
you're at 10 you have minty 10 seek 12
then you receive 11.
the fees be the fees make the two
transactions mutually exclusive
which one do i take
which one do I take
because then i do end up throwing out
because then I do end up throwing out
the future one
if i take the other one
if I take the other one
and how do you implement this and what's
the right thing to do like
it's not obvious in that case if the
fees make it mutually exclusive
so like the implementation is actually
harder in that case well so so hold on
this seems no different from today so
suppose forget forget you know the
min min seek num right suppose that i
i put out transactions you know with
I put out transactions you know with
sequence numbers 11 and 12. like
right now they'll both be forwarded but
what if there's not enough fee for 12
well then you would throw that out i
guess right
but i wouldn't accepted 12
because you kind of so you're in in the
so for pending transactions you're
sort of keeping track of the cumulative
fee that's been charged
i'd have to go and check how we do this
for fee bumps
i don't i don't remember if we reject
I don't I don't remember if we reject
the fee bump if you wouldn't have the
fee to pay for all the subsequent
transactions or if we
yeah yeah yeah it's the same thing we
have to basically you have to whatever
is in the queue you have to be able to
pay for the feeds
that are you sure that's what we
implemented I'm not positive okay oh no
it's yeah I'm sure
yeah so then that would make this that
would make this a little bit trickier
david where it's like like then you have
to handle the case like oh like i have
to handle the case like oh like I have
this earlier transaction but i don't
this earlier transaction but I don't
have a fee for it we should make it
symmetric against the
the female case i guess
the female case I guess
so wait so you're you're saying that
the feedback the outer transaction
doesn't have enough
to pay or sorry what's your
yeah the outer like
oh it doesn't really matter like it like
i both i have both a
I both I have both a
a normal transaction and a fee bump
transaction that I'm that I'm paying for
on a different account
you're saying and now you have to like
prioritize one or the other
does it even have to be on a
different account i think it could even
different account I think it could even
work on the same account
on different accounts it definitely
works like this if you don't have the
balance on this the other account then
we'll we'll just reject you know but
there's different sequence numbers so i
can issue like fee bumps on like three
different transactions on three
different source accounts right
and
if i can only pay for two out of those
if I can only pay for two out of those
three then like different validators are
gonna forward potentially like different
subsets of these three transactions
right so
this seems like a very similar
situation so i don't know why no it's
situation so I don't know why no it's
not it is similar if you
that's that's what i was teasing out
that's that's what I was teasing out
right like what you what you described
in the
so imagine your mean is like one you
know it's like whatever it doesn't
matter basically it's set but it's one
and and now you're at yeah like the
the six you get first transaction
sequence number ten
then you get the second transaction
sequence number eleven that's what you
actually described here you're dealing
with that case that is 11 in this case
you will consider it invalid because
for now right because you have 10 and
you can't process it in the same block
so you just
in this case you just discard 11
everything is good
11 basically can be resubmitted later
all right
now consider the
this in the other direction I'm
receiving 11
and right now you're saying that 10 is
valid
so if 10 is valid i need to discard 11.
so if 10 is valid I need to discard 11.
that's the difference here is that
you're discarding things from the queue
so you basically can have a situation
where
now take this to you know a thousand I'm
going to flood t 1000
then and I'm going to basically submit
to the network nine you know like one
less every time and those are all going
to get forwarded they're all getting
flooded
and at the end only one gets actually in
the queue which is the the smaller one
so i use all this capacity on the
so I use all this capacity on the
overlay right
with no repercussion keywords
okay so you so and this would be fixed
if we picked the the highest sequence
number
if we pick no no no you don't need you
so highest has the same problem right
it's what you want to do is the first
one wins i think
independent of the sequence number the
first string don't care
basically you don't care like if there
is the first one that's in the queue
then if the second one arrives it
says oh there is already something with
a a condition like that
yeah so so the
like we can totally do that
the downside now is that you're more
likely to get conflicting nominations if
there's more than one leader
yeah but that's that's fine it's
actually better from a flooding point of
view the network is going to be much
more resilient at this point and it's
just yeah
sorry and is this what happens with
is this what happens with female
transactions like in my example of
because we should just be consistent so
in my example where i
i create three bumps any two of the
I create three bumps any two of the
three are okay and i basically flood
three are okay and I basically flood
different pairs of them to different
validators they'll each forward like the
first two that they got i mean it's the
first two that they got I mean it's the
same with p bunk it's the same if you
have like you know if i submit two
have like you know if I submit two
transactions with the same fee and same
signal
right they're basically competing on the
overlay
and the the second one is always like a
bad check right like you always say and
then just you just have to fetch it from
the denominator it's not that you fetch
it it's like whoever submitted that
thing will have to resubmit it to the
network
but what's going to happen is someone's
going to nominate a block and like a
bunch of validators are going to be
missing like one of the transactions in
that blocks and then they'll just all
like
have to make sure the validators that
had the other the this other
transaction in their queue right
when the block is going to close
they are going to discard the
transaction because it's actually at
this point invalid at this point in time
it's going to be likely invalid and like
depending on the condition right on your
like if you say for example all that
the
i i need the transaction to be
I need the transaction to be
submitted you know like five ledgers
from now well obviously it's invalid
right now
right and one thing you know i guess
right and one thing you know I guess
my question is kind of
independent of this particular example
right we have this ability to actually
create fee bump transactions and kind of
spray out a bunch of mutually
conflicting fee bump transactions
the result is that
whatever block gets nominated
is likely going to be
missing it's good looking to have
transactions that most of the validators
don't have
and so of course they'll just fetch the
pre-image of that transaction hash but
that of course has overhead on its own
but you're saying like that's not how it
was kind of okay oh yeah yeah like
transaction sets are flooded
independently of
of transactions today right
so basically like you end up nominating
a transaction set i see the pre i see
a transaction set I see the pre I see
the hash of that transaction set in the
nomination message
and i turn around and I'm like i don't
and I turn around and I'm like I don't
know what that transaction set is and
then i have downloaded all the
then I have downloaded all the
transactions anyway sorry
so you download all the transactions
anyway even if you already have most of
them that's that's right right nico i
mean you're you're more active yeah I'm
pretty sure that's right okay yeah
that's the way to do it right now okay
well then that's easy so i think the the
well then that's easy so I think the the
the simple change is you
you don't prioritize one way it's just
first come first serve for forwarding
yeah right
i think that's good
I think that's good
good
cool
yeah actually that's that was what i
was asking with my question number three
in the in that section
yeah which is
so there's like a in in the second
question inside this you know section
on on transaction
forwarding and ordering there was
this
i was asking basically
I was asking basically
if we should do something about
like bad properties basically so so we
have like
with the current proposal right
that we have for the payment channel
it's actually using separate
transactions for di and ci ci is
basically like on like one is the the
one that is allowing you to
to move the
the sequence number and the other one
allows you to
or
uses the delay right if you were
going to to
create a smart contract where you're
putting
the condition and the jump in one
transaction
you're going to have like those kind
of
delay attacks right you can delay those
contracts
pretty badly
so the question i had was
so the question I had was
should we just not allow people
we can always by the way like leave
that that constraint later but like
for now like if you make it that
you can't have a mean
condition
combined with
yeah like minsektom i mean yeah you
yeah like minsektom I mean yeah you
can't combine those the two
mean second mean age
basically
sorry like you can't jump you can't
combine in the same transaction the jump
and and the age
restriction
what would that
i think i did we're in the two-way
I think I did we're in the two-way
payment channel or so imagine yeah right
now so the the cur the prop the protocol
for payment channel doesn't have this
problem because the two transactions ci
and the i they actually have very
and the I they actually have very
different purpose right
and one allows you to jump in the
sequence numbers and the other allows
you to delay
you know to grab like those grace
periods yeah imagine if
yeah but imagine if you try to do like a
and i know we're actually looking at
and I know we're actually looking at
that at some point where it was actually
the same transaction has
allows you to jump and has the condition
right the on the delay
right
if you have
I'm not sure i understand so you're
I'm not sure I understand so you're
saying that you would make it so that
people couldn't use nin sikh num and men
see gauge
in the same the same transaction in
order to because if you imagine like
imagine that pidi somehow could be
combined yeah
which is what this is talking about like
imagine you have a contract for your lrc
in the ai to be combined right
at that point i don't know what that
at that point I don't know what that
means
because
di is like declares that you're going to
do something and then ci actually does
it
yeah but the way you could do it right
you could imagine having a cidi combined
yeah
on the same sequence number
yep you have one that is just the jump
and then you have another one that
oh i don't know like it's a different
oh I don't know like it's a different
protocol right like I'm not talking
about the existing payment channel
I'm
is where you have
you you have like okay you still have d
d and so you declare something and then
you have this thing that could happen in
the future but then in the middle maybe
you have optional transactions that can
be submitted
like maybe
that would be a use case for that like
that that last transaction you want it
to be submittable
without a specific sequence number of
the account so maybe you want like 10
sequence numbers in between and there
are some other transactions that can be
submitted before that
i don't know how you why that's not
I don't know how you why that's not
i don't think that's what I'm describing
I don't think that's what I'm describing
I'm describing a
transactions where you have
both the open range right on sequence
number
and the and the delay
yeah so that's what that's what I'm
describing so
you you have that open range so you can
submit optional transactions between d
and c
the c still has both it needs to have
the min sequence num so that it can be
submitted whether those optional
transactions be submitted or not
but they will have the delay
said yeah i see yeah you could do that
said yeah I see yeah you could do that
basically like you jump and then you
have like
and you need to wait for a little bit to
do those other transactions but they are
not going to be
and if they don't happen closing your
final transaction can still be submitted
after the delay yeah yeah
so my point here was that if you
actually allow people to craft such
transactions
those transactions can be attacked
because you can
like the assumption with those things is
that you can always
like you know i because i have the more
like you know I because I have the more
recent version of that transaction i can
recent version of that transaction I can
always submit it in a way
but here it's not the case anymore and i
have because i can submit those state
have because I can submit those state
ones
in the contract right and
and now you can basically like if s
like the grace guys or whatever is is
is
like fairly big like as in you know like
media more than a few minutes
and you have a lot of transactions that
you're exchanging offline
you can basically submit all of them
all the ones that were until you expire
until you actually expire the the window
certainly I'm I'm confused can you
like imagine that i clarify something
like imagine that I clarify something
is this
is your objection
that this is like too restrictive that
there's transactions that you want that
you can't that are illegal or it's the
other way around that there's
transactions
okay all right so
what specifically is the transaction
that is bad
it's it's so the transaction itself
is not so it's not that you have bad
transactions that they are
you have like in a payment channel
kind of situation right you exchange a
lot of those things offline that's
why you need
to be able to jump forward right
so that you have the latest
transaction being processed
and what I'm saying here is that i
i think that
I think that
is
if you were designing a smart contract
that was combining the two constructs
it's actually a foot gun like it's it's
it's like it's slightly wrong which two
constructs
are we talking about the delay and jump
is the reason why you're saying this is
a foot gun like I'm I'm trying to
understand just like david is as well
like imagine that you have like a the
the
gap is like from sequence number 10 to
20 just to be super concrete so you've
got 11 slots let's make it 10 to 19 so
you've got 10 slots
and then like the delay is one day like
the min seek
the min seek age is one day
what you're i think what nico's saying
what you're I think what nico's saying
but i could be wrong
but I could be wrong
is that you actually might incur a
10-day
delay because somebody could play in
each of the slots and then you go into
the last one
is that what you're saying nico or is
that not i mean yeah like for the delay
that not I mean yeah like for the delay
ones that's exactly what will happen
yet also the other way around where you
expect like the you say oh this is only
valid for the next five minutes
right
and now you can basically cause the
thing to expire
by
replaying older ones
like it's actually those would not be
sorry
those would be like ones with conditions
that are going to be absolute
i mean
I mean
yes of course if you i can give you a
yes of course if you I can give you a
protocol where when i throw in time
protocol where when I throw in time
bounds or ledger bounds like it doesn't
work because those bounds aren't there
but like
to say that that's a foot gun it's like
well just don't use that feature if you
don't need it and it won't get in your
way right
i just don't see it what I'm saying is
I just don't see it what I'm saying is
that i don't see right now a use case
that I don't see right now a use case
where you would put both
i can only i can only think of bad
I can only I can only think of bad
things so you can put both
so the argument is
understandable
you're saying like we should we have a
tx conditions v2 and the tx conditions
v3 or something no no it doesn't need to
be v1 d2 it's more like
a tx conditions like relative delay and
a tx conditions like jump sequence gap
or something like should there be like
two flavors of precondition
that are mutually exclusive and that
have subsets of these things rather than
throwing them all into one
one tx giant tx conditions v2
i mean like yeah i i i don't think
I mean like yeah I don't think
it's yeah maybe annoying i don't hate
it's yeah maybe annoying I don't hate
that if that's if that's necessary to go
in
i i don't i don't see it i guess I'm not
I I don't I don't see it I guess I'm not
yeah I'm not maybe explaining very well
like the
like i know that we were when we were
like I know that we were when we were
looking earlier at this protocol
some transactions had actually those two
things you know set
and if you're not careful yeah like you
did you end up with a bad like basically
a broken
a broken contract
and you know it's part of like you know
kind of giving the ecosystem like
you know the least number of things that
they can trip on on those present
transactions
i i don't object to that if we want two
I I don't object to that if we want two
flavors of tx conditions
i can do that i can see you know there's
I can do that I can see you know there's
some benefit in terms of like
transactions take fewer bytes when
serialized there's some additional
complexity then now you have to like you
know
check the union
can we keep it as one structure and then
just have core
not allow those two things fields to be
set at the same time i was going to ask
set at the same time I was going to ask
the same question like
i mean that seems like the worst of all
I mean that seems like the worst of all
worlds because now we're adding like
additional constraints that aren't
expressed in xdr so like reading the xdr
is not enough to know like you can make
transactions that look valid because xdr
is valid but they violate some rules so
that that i don't like
that that I don't like
plus you don't get the benefit of the
more compact transactions
so i would suggest either keeping it
so I would suggest either keeping it
this way or having two different kinds
of tx conditions
i think can we maybe take this on
I think can we maybe take this on
offline like I'm yeah i feel like
offline like I'm yeah I feel like
crosstalk syntax at this point right but
it's clear there are two choices and
there is like a design decision involved
right one is like split it in two in
order to protect users more
and two is keep it simpler even though
we are potentially leaving something in
there that although we could use an
error
actually i do have a
actually I do have a
a potential a use for this
which is that
well maybe this maybe this is not a very
good one but
but like
you could worry about someone submitting
a bunch of these transactions and like
draining the fees
from the account or something and so
maybe you want to
make sure that you know the other person
is only
doing so many but that's that's kind of
bogus also because you could always just
use a fee bump transaction
to get the one that you want to
execute
through so
all right well
again I'm pretty agnostic on
this
so it's a binary choice and it's pretty
clear what it is so i think moving it
clear what it is so I think moving it
offline and just trying to find a way to
just ultimately choose one or the other
that makes sense okay the only other
thing i'd add to this it's like we
should probably convince ourselves that
like it actually is always a bad idea to
do this
it probably is nico i think niko's point
it probably is nico I think niko's point
sounds right but like i don't think
sounds right but like I don't think
any of the rest of us had actually
considered that question so we should
probably take at least a few minutes
offline to think about that yeah okay
what else we got here we got six minutes
now more questions I'm sorry i took over
now more questions I'm sorry I took over
the meeting
i think this is great because we're
I think this is great because we're
getting through these questions
concrete action items
all right so the next things are
around transaction validation
so yeah so those are like things that i
think this is there's a section that
talks about
like i think dual validation right in
like I think dual validation right in
the dark
that basically
what happens basically during
nomination basically and then what
happens later right when you actually
apply i think this is what this is
apply I think this is what this is
really about
so there's a thing that says all but
the transaction with the lowest signum
on a given source account might have
zero for the mean sec age and mean sec
ledger fields all right right
we're nominated block of transactions
right
asking is like should we simplify this
to just be something more like the
the rule that we just discussed for
flooding transactions
and basically
the rule is if you have a mean sec
you know thing condition on the on
the transaction
you can never mix it with any other
transaction in the same for the same
source icon
like instead of having this weird like
you know the lowest
i don't understand what we gain by
I don't understand what we gain by
having this extra kind of you know
like basically special cases where you
can put two transactions
yeah i mean
yeah I mean
you often might want to do that like you
want to bump a sequence number and then
execute a bunch of
things at that sequence number that are
valid
but
are you talking about yeah but like
like it sounds like
it's complicated things for no real good
reason
i agree with the fact that it's an
I agree with the fact that it's an
implementation detail
like we could not this one is actually
part of the this one is part of the
protocol that's why this one is actually
very important because yeah so the
question said valid
so
yeah so the question is like do you do
you have like you know could you have
like sort of various sequences of
transactions
that that you can execute
with
you know
so after some
some delay right
and and one reason you might want to
do this is suppose for some reason you
don't want to use claimable balances or
you're worried about something failing
right you'd want to break a set of
operations up into
several
different transactions in case like one
of them fails so the sequence number's
consumed and you can execute the other
ones right and so then if these if this
kind of series of things you want to do
has some relative delay then what you do
is like the first
in the sequence would have like a min
seek age and then the others you would
just kind of like not because you can
only execute them with the right
sequence numbers so
to me this seems like something you'd
want to do it doesn't seem like a
particularly hard thing to implement i
mean you're already checking that all
the sequence numbers are consecutive or
that that they have mint numbers that
make sense so
just to sort of say that like other than
the first one the min cage also has to
be zero it doesn't seem like a big deal
but
i mean small conditions right sorry i
I mean small conditions right sorry i
don't
i was definitely useful right so the
I was definitely useful right so the
only reason to remove it would be
if if it's like really hard to implement
right it's going to
you have to also do that in in
overlay right
in the queues like for all the queues
that are being managed
well they all are going to have to have
you have to solve them yeah they have to
be sorted and yeah like
yeah but we already have to do that
because we have we have to make sure
number one
it's more like now you have like certain
conditions between depending on the
order right
press you know if you think of
of i think what we are talking about
of I think what we are talking about
earlier is that okay if there's any
transaction in the queue
you know i don't i can't add the
you know I don't I can't add the
condition for example if i can
condition for example if I can
i can't add that transaction sorry
right but that's why we already talked
about that that we're gonna
oh sorry what I'm not particularly
offended by what you have david just to
provide a counterpoint to nico like i
i think there could be merit to
I think there could be merit to
pipelining and i don't think
pipelining and I don't think
like i don't think compared to the
like I don't think compared to the
already
very large amount of condition checking
that we do in especially in the
transaction queue i don't think this
transaction queue I don't think this
would be a very material change that's
my opinion
if
if we think that this kind of pipelining
situation is like not only possible but
plausible and i think it probably is
plausible and I think it probably is
i don't think it's that bad personally
at this point we're also out of time so
okay so okay are you okay with that nico
or do you still you're still not
convinced no i say it's probably fine
convinced no I say it's probably fine
yeah it's just
more conditions like i said
more conditions like I said
okay
this one i do think it's useful so
okay cool
so leave this one as is because it's
useful and possible
unless you know obviously i think that
unless you know obviously I think that
perhaps what happens now is that we move
this back to the mailing list there are
a few action items for you david to make
changes to and a few things
we still need to discuss async but
they're pretty simple straightforward
decisions to make
and then that also gives anyone time if
you know nico if you think about this
last point and decide that actually the
utility may not warrant the actual work
or something you know there's time to
sort of bring it up but it feels like
these are fairly discreet changes and
action items that can actually get this
thing in a position where we can
evaluate a draft possibly with an eye
towards acceptance very soon does that
seem true
yeah
all right well awesome everybody thanks
again for being here thanks everyone at
home for watching and i'll see you
all soon
you